Document node's store structure (#1603)
celestiaorg/docs: nodes/celestia-node-store-structure.md

---
description: This section contains information on the celestia-node datastore and its contents.
---

# celestia-node datastore

The node's datastore refers to the storage structure
used to manage the data that supports the node's operation.
It consists of directories and files that contain the node's state,
configuration, and other information relevant to the node.

The following are the directories and files found in the datastore:

- `/blocks`: This directory stores blocks. Each file contained in this directory

> represents a block on Celestia and contains its associated data. However, the light node's datastore does not contain this directory, as light nodes do not store blocks.

Reviewer: - [ ] Add clarification that it is present on bridge and full nodes, but not light nodes

- `/data`: This directory contains block headers and various files belonging to node LSM storage system such as `DISCARD`, `KEYREGISTRY`, and `MANIFEST`.

- `/index`: This directory stores the index files that handle mapping specific keys such as block heights, to the corresponding data. Similar to `/blocks`, the light node's datastore does not include this directory, as they do not perform indexing.

> - `/inverted_index`: This directory stores the inverted index files used for mapping queries to the corresponding data location, and various files belonging to node LSM storage system, such as `DISCARD`, `KEYREGISTRY`, `LOCK`, and `MANIFEST`. The light node's datastore does not contain this directory.

Reviewer: - [ ] define "LSM" before using it as acronym

---
description: This section contains information on the celestia-node datastore and its contents.
---

# celestia-node store

The node's store refers to the storage structure
used to manage the data that supports the node's operation.
It consists of directories and files that contain the node's state,
configuration, and other information relevant to the node.

Below are the directories contained in the node's store:

- `/blocks`: This directory stores blocks. Each file contained in this directory
represents a block on Celestia and contains its associated data.

- `/data`: This directory contains the block header files.

- `/config`: This directory stores the files used to set the node's operational parameters.
It contains the following configuration files:

  - `app.toml`: The configuration file to define application settings such as logging levels and performance tuning.

  - `client.toml`: used to configure parameters for client interactions like API endpoints or timeouts.

- `config.toml`: This is the node's primary configuration file.

> It defines the node's core settings such as the network parameters and the node's identity.

Reviewer: "and the node's identity" is this true @renaynay ?

- `inverted_index`: This file stores indexed data that can be used to make blockchain queries.

> - `/keys`: This directory stores the cryptographic key pair that is used to operate the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/keys`: This directory stores the cryptographic key pairs that are used to operate the node.
```
